Creating VM
	Compute (RAM,CPU,OS)
	Storage (Disk)
	Newtwork(IP address)
	Security(NSG - inbound & outbound rules)
	Redeploy option - deploys the VM on differenmt host.
Network Security group
	creating NSG
	applying NSG at subnet level
	applying NSG at VM level
Storage account
	creating storage account by integrating the vnet
	By selecting all networks
	selected networks
	creating file share and mounting it on the VM
	uploading the file in container
	Access tiers - 
Service Principal Name
	Steps to create SPN:: Azure AD -> App Registration

Peering
	Provides connectivity between the VMs that falls under different Vnets.	

Route tables
	Gives the path between the connection staring from one subnet (source) to the other subnet(destination). 
VPN gateway
	connecting the 2 different networks
		Point-site VPN
		Site-Site VPN
		Root certificate need to be uploaded(extn .cer)

Steps to create VPN::
	Create the VPN service
	Generate self-signed certificate
	Go to certmgr.msc -> Personal -> Certificates -> export the root certifificate
	Open the root cert and provide the cert content in (VPN name -> User VPN config -> Root certificate)
	Give Download VPN client
	Install that on your local machine
	connect to the VPN and check if the VM is accessible through the private IP.	

Keyvault
	
	Used for storing secrets(passwords)
		Access policies - user should be added to the access policies to view the secrets
		IAM - The user can be added to the access policy only if he/she is a part of Azure IAM.
VM scaleset
	Used for splitting the process to different VMs under the scale set in case of high utilization.
Web App
	Its based on PaaS (Platform as a Service).
	We can just deploy a code and the harware/network are maintained by Azure.
Azure file sync
	create a storage account and file share in it
	create azure file sync service
	create sync group
	configure cloud endpoint
	Install Azure file sync agent on VM (can be done only on servers)
	configure server endpoint (while configuring need to mention the path in which the files are going to be stored)
	
Domain joining in Windows AD
	Install AD role on the server
Load balancer
	works only in tcp port (4th layer of OSI model)
	VMs in a particluar availabilty set can be added in a single backend pool
SQL database
App gateway
	Works in layer 7 of OSI model (Application layer).
	Used for load balancing purpose.
	SSL offload - Provides security for the data.
Web app (in detail)
Log Analytics workspace
	Used for monitoring purpose.
	It has to be enabled on all the resources under Diagnostics settings to get the logs.
	These logs are used for troubleshooting.
	Default retention period - 31 days.
Function App
	Used for server-less execution.
	For example, any code can be uploaded to perform the action on daily basis at particular point of time.(like VM shutdown at off business hours).
Network watcher
	Used to troubleshoot where the connection gets blocked exactly.
		IP flow verify
		Next hop
		VPN troubleshoot
		Connection troubleshoot
Azure Active Directory(AD)
	Arecord - maps domain name to Ip address
	Cname - maps domain name to FQDN
	MXrecord - used for mail servers
Looping in ARM template
Availability Set
	Fault domain - Logical grouping of hardware that shares common power source and network switch. 
	Update domain - Logical grouping of hardware that undergoes maintenance or reboot at a same time. The VMs in update domains are not rebooted in a sequential order.
		
	


	
	